# PH News PDF Generator

### How to Use
1) Install the requirements first by entering in the terminal: 

   ```pip install -r requirements.txt```

2) Run the app through this command:

   ```python app.py```


### Video Demo: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z0ti3OmsPOE

### Description:

 The PH News PDF Generator aims to simulate somehow the delivery of latest news article from ABS CBN straight to the reader straight from a PDF (a news PDF, if you will). You open the app, and then asks you to select a news report category. Once inputted, voila! A PDF containing the latest news is instantly generated for your reading consumption.

Behind the scene, this Python-based app has two (2) main components to deliver the news:

### 1.) Web scraping
Enabling Library: `Beautiful Soup (bs4)`

  This library enables the app to do the web scraping functions:
- Extract all the links of news articles related to the selected news category;
- Extract the contents of a news article and store it into string for loading to PDF;

Supporting Libraries Used:
- `request` - Access to the website for web scraping is made possible through the use of modififed `header;
- `re` (regex) -  While content is extracted largely by bs4, the `re.match` function allows cleaning of the content before its finalization;

### 2.)  PDF Generation

Enabling Library: `Report Lab`

This library gets the title and finalized content, and puts them into PDF in an orderly fashion.
Other functions used to achieve the desired PDF product includes:
- Use of `frame` and `Paragraph` to load and format the news contents therein for proper wrapping and presentation.
  This function also handles generation of multi-page PDF for voluminous contents.
- Use of `imagereader` to load and properly the logo image in the PDF.
- Use of `drawString` to place the title, date and disclaimer footers to appropriate location.
- Use of `TTfont` to load true fonts for styling contents
- `save` generates the PDF!


Supporting Libraries Used:
- `datetime` - converts date from the link into a string format that is used to load and print to the title;
- `titlecase` - formats title for styling purposes

Disclaimer:
All news articles generated by this app are owned and published by ABS CBN Corporation, a media and entertainment organization in the Philippines (PH).
All rights and credits go directly to ABS CBN.
No copyright infringement intended.